> 选了相似的组件来比较，有领域专用有通用，比较的标准有xx。通过比较，我们对这几个组件模型进行大致总结如下：

In order to reflect the characteristics and evaluate the properties of the OSAI component model more systematically, we selected some similar component models for comparison. We choose both domain-specific and general-purpose models to make this comparison more meaningful. Following the dimensions in basic requirements and advanced features, the information of these component models is collected in table Ⅰ. From the contract,  we can summarize these models roughly as follows (in alphabetic order) : 

- AUTOSAR (AUTomotive Open System ARchitecture) is a standardized software architecture in the automotive field. The standard supports both client-server and sender-receiver communication modes. AUTOSAR provides hierarchical architecture at design-time and supports multiple instantiation at runtime.
- CCM (CORBA Component Model) is a general-purpose component model based on the CORBA middleware. Thus components are not tied to any particular language or platform as long as the CORBA middleware is used. Component interfaces are described in the CORBA IDL and they provide synchronous or asynchronous communication.
- IEC 61499 provides a component solution for automation and distributed control systems extended by IEC 61131. The execution of components called Function Blocks(FBs) in this standard is event-driven and data transmission is via pipe&filter way. The implementation platform and language with IEC 61499 are also not limited.
- Rubus is a domain-specific component model focusing on real-time properties and resource-constraint problems of embedded systems. It runs on the base of the Rubus OS. Implementation is done by C and communication style is pipe&filter.
- SOFA 2.0 is an extension of the SOFA(Software Appliances) component model with hierarchical architecture and features like dynamic reconfiguration, control parts, and multiple communication patterns. SOFA 2.0 has to be developed by Java language, so it is only compatible with platforms supporting JVM(Java Virtual Machine).
- TwinCAT(The Windows Control and Automation Technology) is a PC-based automation software developed by Beckhoff. TwinCAT offers TcCOM (TwinCAT Component Object Model) derived from the COM (Component Object Model) to define characteristics and behaviors of application modules. Modules in TwinCAT support multiple instantiation and periodic tasks. However, the run-time environment of TwinCAT relies on specific hardware devices.

From the table, we can observe that OSAI component model not only possesses hierarchical design and an explicit, clear, well-defined interface definition with no language or platform restriction, but also provides advanced features including but not limited to multiple communication styles, multiple instantiation, and runtime dynamics, which makes the standard comprehensive and rich. Therefore we can say that although the OSAI component model is designed for ICS, it also applies to general distributed systems to some extent.   



> For example, dynamic runtime support for component models, i.e. ,components can be updated, loaded and unloaded with minimal downtime, is an important feature for long-running systems. Similarly, multiple communication styles enable better abstraction of communication middleware and allow for easier building of heterogeneous distributed systems [C].Support for different programing languages for implementing increases the possibility that the component model may provide richer functionalities. Moreover,the multi-instance feature can effectively enhance system efficiency and performance for specific purposes. 

 